[Music]
why
humanity has been asking this question
of why
since the beginning like in why are
chili peppers hot
why do we collect money in piggy banks
why is pizza round but the box is square
why so many questions well let's get to
the bottom of this
why are piggy banks pigs in the middle
ages
people use pots made with a type of clay
called pig
to keep coins it was a pig bang
since the word sounds like pig putters
started making these money jars
in the shape of those curly tailed
animals thus
we got the piggy back also in many
countries the pig symbolizes prosperity
and wealth
why is it a computer mouse yeah the cord
looks like a tail
making the whole thing clearly resemble
a mouse
but here's something you might not know
your palm size clicker
could have been called a turtle instead
the first computer mice were so
bulky the large outer casing looked more
like a turtle shell
[Music]
why are most erasers pink erasers were
first made with rubber and pumice
the latter being the stuff that actually
gets rid of pencil that
the resulting color depended on the type
of pumice used
which usually came in white or red but
when the eberhard faber pencil company
started using pink italian pumice for
their erasers
the color became the most preferred
among customers
why do we decorate a tree for the
holidays
well in ancient times the evergreen like
pines and furs
was revered as a tree of power and
immortality
because it stays green all year the
luscious green color also encouraged
people during
dull gray winter days that spring would
soon follow
to show appreciation and respect we
started putting decorations on them
why do clocks run clockwise other than
what
candlewise when people use sundials in
ancient times
the shadow of the sun went from the left
to the right in the northern hemisphere
and vice versa in the southern
hemisphere the first
mechanical clocks were invented in the
north so
they go what we now know as clockwise
if it had been in the south the
directions could have been switched
today
why is data called bytes the word bite
was created in the fifties so it
wouldn't be confused with the word bit
a bit is the binary information digit
like zero or one
a string of eight bits makes one byte
so eight kilobits equals one kilobyte
and so on for megabytes gigabytes and
terabytes
i guess we can conclude that this story
bites
why are there two holes in a socket
because
electricity must flow through a circuit
or a kind of circle
the current flows from your breaker box
to the hot hole on the right
passes through the appliance say your
hair dryer or lamp
and then comes back to the neutral left
hole
why do puddles of gasoline have rainbow
colors
you'll mostly see this on a rainy day or
wet roads
and it's because the oil gas is made
from doesn't mix with the water
the oil sits on top light passes through
layers of different widths
and that creates varying colors in the
spectrum
same story with rainbowy bubbles
why do jeans have that small pocket well
this pocket was originally for pocket
watches that hung from
chains on the waist everybody wears
wrist watches now
but the pocket stuck around
[Music]
why does toothpaste have three stripes
well each color has a purpose the white
removes stains and whitens teeth
the blue refreshes your breath and gets
rid of germs
and the red protects and strengthens
gums so they tell us
why are disposable chopsticks connected
at the top
it lets you know they haven't been used
before oh by the way
you're supposed to break that connected
top off and lay your used chopsticks on
it so they don't touch the table
[Music]
why does tea come in bags in 1908
american tea merchant thomas sullivan
decided to give his customers samples of
his product
in small silk bags the idea was to pour
the sample out of the bag and into your
cup
but people immediately assumed the bag
worked like the traditional metal
infusers
so it was a happy accident
why does plastic take so long to
decompose
paper and food waste decompose because
bacteria feed on them
breaking them down into basic chemical
compounds
but they completely bypass throwaway
plastic
because very few types of bacteria can
feed on plastic
so it sits for 450 years versus your
throwaway movie tickets that disappear
within two weeks
[Music]
why do microwaves heap food unevenly
well it's because the microwaves inside
don't
reach the food evenly throughout the
waves can bounce off the dish and the
walls of the oven
so there will always be blind spots they
don't fall on
it's way the plate inside rotates
do canned goods last so long food spoils
because of bacteria and those can be
airborne
canned goods are sealed so air and
microbes can't get inside
that's all why do they give you a piece
of fabric with new clothes
it's not for patching a hole the fabric
samples are like
test subjects for the first washing you
can put this piece of cloth in the
washer
and see how much it fades shrinks or
loses its shape
if everything's okay you can safely
machine wash your garment
why do we wear a tie in 17th century
europe
the tie was invented for a practical
purpose to tighten the collar
and keep the wind from blowing down
soldiers necks
but king louis xiii of france liked this
item of clothing so much
he made it a must-have accessory for
royal gatherings
why are there holes in swiss cheese mice
no the common held belief is that they
come from bacteria
these microbes produce gas that creates
bubbles
and then holes in the cheese when it
hardens but a more recent theory puts it
down to microscopic bits of hay
that fall in the milk they weaken the
curd structure
and allow gas to form in the first place
why are chili peppers hot
the thing that gives the pepper its
mouth-burning kick is called capsaicin
chilies produce it naturally to protect
themselves from hungry animals and
insects
as for why your eyes water and your nose
runs when you eat spicy foods
it's because your body recognizes this
irritant
and produces more mucus to defend itself
against it
why do we have margins on paper
according to the popular theory
spaces were dedicated to both sides of
the paper because of
rodents back in the day paper and books
weren't stored in a nice clean office
they were down in basements and
warehouses people didn't write in this
margin
so that they wouldn't lose any
information to rats chewing on the edges
ew the red lines marking the space
came later to give you an idea of where
to stop
and start your writing why are keyboards
in qwerty initially the keys on
typewriters were in alphabetical order
but the machines broke down because
typists learned to type too
fast frequently used pairs of letters
like th
or st often got stuck that's why
the seemingly random qwerty keyboard
came about
the keys with the most common letters
were put in hard to reach places to slow
down typists and avoid breakage
why are most coins round plenty of coins
in ancient times were square
oval diamond shaped or other forms that
weren't perfectly round
but it turned out that round coins are
easier to count and mint
also sharp edges on square coins were
more susceptible to breaking
why is pizza round but the box is square
piece is round because it's easier to
divide it into equal parts
also during cooking the heat is
distributed more evenly
throughout a round pizza pie and the box
is square
because it's cheaper to produce and
store it that way
and pi r squared gives you the area of a
circle in geometry
[Music]
why are party cups red well first the
bright color means the cup can easily be
found on a crowded table
among snacks and other things secondly
the color encourages action on a
psychological
level the red cup seems to be saying
drink me
why are taxis yellow kind of like the
red cup thing
it originally helped them stand out
among a sea of black cars back in the
day
it's also more visible both during the
day and at night
finally here's my standard answer for
when someone
asks me why why not
hey if you learned something new today
then give the video a like
and share with a friend and here are
some other cool videos i think you'll
enjoy
just click to the left or right and
remember stay
on the bright side of life